Glucose is the long-established, obligatory fuel for brain that fulfills many
      critical functions, including ATP production, oxidative stress management, and
      synthesis of neurotransmitters, neuromodulators, and structural components.
      Neuronal glucose oxidation exceeds that in astrocytes, but both rates increase in
      direct proportion to excitatory neurotransmission; signaling and metabolism are
      closely coupled at the local level. Exact details of neuron-astrocyte
      glutamate-glutamine cycling remain to be established, and the specific roles of
      glucose and lactate in the cellular energetics of these processes are debated.
      Glycolysis is preferentially upregulated during brain activation even though
      oxygen availability is sufficient (aerobic glycolysis). Three major pathways,
      glycolysis, pentose phosphate shunt, and glycogen turnover, contribute to
      utilization of glucose in excess of oxygen, and adrenergic regulation of aerobic 
      glycolysis draws attention to astrocytic metabolism, particularly glycogen
      turnover, which has a high impact on the oxygen-carbohydrate mismatch. Aerobic
      glycolysis is proposed to be predominant in young children and specific brain
      regions, but re-evaluation of data is necessary. Shuttling of glucose- and
      glycogen-derived lactate from astrocytes to neurons during activation,
      neurotransmission, and memory consolidation are controversial topics for which
      alternative mechanisms are proposed. Nutritional therapy and vagus nerve
      stimulation are translational bridges from metabolism to clinical treatment of
      diverse brain disorders.

Background: Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) is a brain-specific astroglial
      protein that is released into the blood soon after traumatic brain injury by
      mature astrocytes. S100B is rapidly released into the cerebrospinal fluid and
      bloodstream after brain damage. We compared the serum concentrations of these
      proteins in patients with severe head trauma (bleeding and/or fracture) or
      nontraumatic intracerebral hemorrhage and healthy individuals. Materials and
      Methods: The study included 63 patients (33 males and 30 females) with traumatic 
      cerebral hemorrhage and/or cranial bone fractures or nontraumatic cerebral
      hemorrhage and 30 healthy control subjects. The reasons for attending the
      emergency department were as follows: fall from a height (n = 32), traffic
      accident (n = 18), nontraumatic intracerebral hemorrhage (n = 6), animal kick to 
      the head (n = 4), and blow to the head (n = 3). Results: Of the 63 patients
      included in the study, 33 (52.4%) were male and 30 (47.6%) were female. Of the 30
      healthy controls, 12 (40%) were male and 18 (60%) were female. The average age of
      the patients was 27 years (range, 1 month to 86 years) and the average age of the
      control group was 21 years (range, 18-30 years). The mean serum GFAP
      concentrations were 86.37 ng/mL in the patients and 38.07 ng/mL in the controls
      (P < 0.05). The mean serum S100B concentrations were 428.37 pg/mL in the patients
      and 103.44 pg/mL in the controls (P < 0.05). Eight (12.7%) patients died in the
      hospital; of those, the mean GCS score was 4.6, and the mean GFAP and S100B
      levels were 127.8 ng/mL and 860.6 pg/mL, respectively. Conclusion: The GFAP and
      S100B concentrations were significantly higher in patients with traumatic or
      nontraumatic brain injury than in healthy individuals, indicating that serum
      levels of these biomarkers may provide an alternative to computed tomography for 
      the diagnosis of brain injury.

Epigenetic annotation studies of genetic risk variants for multiple sclerosis
      (MS) implicate dysfunctional lymphocytes in MS susceptibility; however, the role 
      of central nervous system (CNS) cells remains unclear. We investigated the effect
      of the risk variant, rs7665090(G), located near NFKB1, on astrocytes. We
      demonstrated that chromatin is accessible at the risk locus, a prerequisite for
      its impact on astroglial function. The risk variant was associated with increased
      NF-kappaB signaling and target gene expression, driving lymphocyte recruitment,
      in cultured human astrocytes and astrocytes within MS lesions, and with increased
      lesional lymphocytic infiltrates and lesion sizes. Thus, our study establishes a 
      link between genetic risk for MS (rs7665090(G)) and dysfunctional astrocyte
      responses associated with increased CNS access for peripheral immune cells. MS
      may therefore result from variant-driven dysregulation of the peripheral immune
      system and of the CNS, where perturbed CNS cell function aids in establishing
      local autoimmune inflammation.

The gap junctions (GJs), which form intercellular communicating channels between 
      two apposing cells or form hemichannel with extracellular environment, perform
      crucial functions to maintain small molecule homeostasis. The central nervous
      system (CNS) GJs are important for maintenance of myelin sheath and neuronal
      activity. Connexin (Cx) proteins are building blocks of GJs. Recent
      cell-biological investigations show that amongst the CNS specific Cxs, the most
      abundant Cx protein, Cx43 and its oligodendrocytic coupling partner Cx47
      primarily important for maintenance of CNS myelin. Recent investigations
      elucidate that the expression of Cx43 and Cx47 is very important to maintain K?
      buffering and nutrient homeostasis in oligodendrocytes, CNS myelin and
      oligodendrocyte function. The investigations on Multiple Sclerosis (MS) patient
      samples and EAE hypothesized that the functional loss of Cx43/Cx47 could be
      associated with spread of chronic MS lesions. Exploring the mechanism of initial 
      GJ alteration and its effect on demyelination in this model of MS might play a
      primary role to understand the basis of altered CNS homeostasis, observed during 
      MS. In this review, we mainly discuss the role of CNS GJs, specifically the
      Cx43/Cx47 axis in the perspective of demyelination.